>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Really the goal
here is to take this collection and
move it to a service.
So I'm just going to copy this.
And I am going to put the widget
service into the shared folder.
Widget Service
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Sure, why not.
All right, class, import decorate.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's crazy,
just going to paste this
in since we're here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You can see here that
I decorated it, and
did the imports all in one fell swoop.
And so here, this is it,
with the class it's the container that
hold the collection, and then let's go to.
Actually let's do this and
stick with convention.
[BLANK AUDIO] WidgetService and
then, let's hop in to our app module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yikes, so
I just imported it and
we'll go to providers.
I've created it, I've exposed it and
I'm going to consume it, so
in our widgets component,
over here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm
going to just take this and delete it.
Because we're going to
get it from the service.
Now, let's consume it,
private, which is service.
Through the search assignment is
now available to, for consumption,
and the rest of the class.
So we'll go with this style widgets,
equals
this.widgetsService.widgets.
And now, in theory,
that when I go back to the page,
let me refresh this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: No provider for
Caffeine service?
What happened here?
That's right, you sabotaged me.
Let's go back to my app module,
bear with me, I was wondering why that was
grayed out.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We'll
go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
let's go to widgets,
you can see that it's still happening.
But let's prove that it
is indeed coming from our
service
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let me just close some
of this down,
we're starting to get a little bit messy.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yellow!
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Create,
expose, consume.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Any questions
about this?
Are we seeing how a service is a class?
The component is, for
the most part, a class.
And we're kind of doing at this point,
a lot of the same things over and over.
So this is kind of
the beauty of convention,
is once you understand properties,
methods, the shape,
then it applies across the board.
>> Speaker 2: Could you
quick go back to the widgets component,
just where you assigned it.
>> Speaker 2: Widgets
service dot
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now if I do need
to go back to any one of these files for
somebody to witness,
at least one of the ways to do it,
then let me know.
Now the other part of this, and so kind
of I get into interfaces, the first time,
around services, cuz that's where
it's starting to pass data around,
and it's kinda nice to know what it is.
So in the shared folder I'm going
to click on Typescript file and
we'll just go widget.model.ts.
Export interface
Widget, ID is a number I think,
name is a string and description.
And then what you can do is well,
but sometimes you want
to have properties that do not necessarily
have to be fulfilled, they're optional.
And so, you could for instance have
a widget, that just has an ID and a name.
So what you're gonna do is you're gonna
mark these certain properties as optional,
and it would still satisfy the interface.
This is what we're saying is,
a widget has to have an id,
but we'd like it to have a name and
a description as well.
And so from here, let's go and,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Export this as well,
so, export .
And so we're just going to,
from Widget model.
And then what we can do
is interestingly enough,
when we go to the widget component,
it won't come from arrow wall.
But I still want to expose it, is we
know that this is going to be a widget.
So we go here
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
what do we know about widgets?
That it's an actual array of widget
objects, and so you can do this two ways.
And I don't think one is better than
the other, is you can go, like this.
So this is using generic notation, or, and
if I say something stupid here about this,
feel free to jump in clarify, so
this is kind of the generic notation.
You'll see this a lot when you're
dealing with observables, and
you may not know what's
coming down the pipeline, or,
this is kind of what I prefer
Is using this version.
As far as I know they are exactly
the same, they do the exact same thing,
it's just six of one
half a dozen of another.
But now we're saying this is
an array of widget objects.
And so if we start to
reference something else, or
put something else in there that's not
a widget, then we will hear all about it.
In fact let's see what happens here,
this widgets.push let's go
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I don't know test
hello foo equals bar.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you can see here it's already saying like,
whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Like this isn't a widget, like, stop.
So this is really handy
when you kind of know, like
this was expecting this one thing, and
this unfortunately did not satisfy this.
Although I think if you go
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is pretty neat.
It's telling me exactly
what I have to have.
ID, description and name.
So this is kind of one of the benefits
of using typing within TypeScript